Document Personal Access Tokens (#2050)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_creating-a-personal-access-token.adoc

[id="creating-a-personal-access-token_{context}"]
= Creating a {PAT}

Use this procedure to create a {PAT}.

.Procedure

> . Navigate to *Administer* > *Users*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer* > *Users*.
```

. Select a user for which you want to create a {PAT}.
. On the *{PAT}s* tab, click *Add {PAT}*.
. Enter a *Name* for you {PAT}.
. Optional: Select the *Expires* date to set an expiration date.
If you do not set an expiration date, {PAT} will never expire unless revoked.
. Click Submit.

> You now have the {PAT} available to you on the *{PAT}s* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I am unsure but lean towards dropping this line.

Author: I'd prefer to keep this line to prompt the user to look for the PAT as they won't see it again.

Reviewer: Maybe reword to "Copy your PAT to your clipboard/Note the PAT because you cannot access it after leaving this page."? Or maybe just drop the admonition and use line 19 as explanation?

Author: How about this: I removed the last step and made it part of the admonition.

I imagine that if I was a user and there was not a big **IMPORTANT** admonition striking my eyes, I would definitely lose my first PAT expecting it to stick around forever. (I actually did expect it to stick around forever when testing the procedure.)

. Click *Copy to clipboard* to copy your {PAT}.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Make sure to store your {PAT} as you won't be able to access it again after you leave the page or create a new {PAT}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure to store your {PAT} as you won't be able to access it again after you leave the page or create a new {PAT}.
```

> Ensure to store your {PAT} as you won't be able to access it again after you leave the page or create a new {PAT}.

Author: I'd like to avoid using shortened forms as they sound less official (I also don't like me sounding like a bureaucrat
 here). Maybe we can create an issue to have further discussion and then add the agreed-upon rules to README?

> Ensure to store your {PAT} as you won't be able to access it again after you leave the page or create a new {PAT}.

Author: That being said, I had a brain-freeze and didn't realize I was the one using shortened form. My apologies. No discussion needed.

====

.Verification

> . Make an API request to your {ProjectServer} and authenticate with your new {PAT}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Make an API request to your {ProjectServer} and authenticate with your {PAT}:
```

// tags in combination with `none` substitution have to be used here to render colon between USERNAME and PAT as normal.
+
[options="nowrap", subs="none,attributes"]
----
# curl https://<em>{foreman-example-com}</em>/api/status --user <em>USERNAME</em>:<em>PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN</em>
----
. You should receive a response with status `200`, for example:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
{"{project-context}_version":"{ProductVersion}.0","result":"ok","status":200,"version":"3.5.1.10","api_version":2}
----
+

> If you go back to *{PAT}s* tab, you can also see a new *Last Used* time next to your {PAT}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you go back to *{PAT}s* tab, you can see the *Last Used* time next to your {PAT}.
```
